.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH FBDEV __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
fbdev \- video driver for TI's OMAP 3 SoCs with a POWERVR SGX graphics core
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qfbdev\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fbdev
is an __xservername__ driver for PowerVR SGX.  This is an accelerated
driver using EXA and DRI2, the following framebuffer depths are
supported: 8, 15, 16, 24, 32. RandR multi-head configuration is
supported for builtin LCD and TV.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The 
.B fbdev
driver supports TI's OMAP 3 SoCs with a POWERVR SGX graphics core.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to
this driver.
.PP
For this driver it is not required to specify modes in the screen 
section of the config file.  The
.B fbdev
driver uses RandR configuration for modesetting.
.PP
The following driver 
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qPerfTime\*q \*q" integer \*q
Periodically print the SGX performance counters: number of hardware and software
copy and solid fill operations, cache flushes and invalidates.  The time is
specified in milliseconds.  This option is only effective when the driver has
been compiled with --enable-perf.  Default: 0/off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qPerfReset\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Reset the SGX performance counters after printing them.  This option is only
effective when the driver has been compiled with --enable-perf.  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTestCopy\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Performs a blit using a CRC pattern, then reads back the memory and verifies the
CRC.  Significant performance penalties will be incurred when enabling this
option!  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTestCopyOnly\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Only perform the blit using the CRC pattern; do not perform the real blit
afterwards.  Enabling this will cause incorrect rendering.  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRenderSync\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Wait for rendering to complete.  Default: on.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qVSync\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Synchronize pageflip or blit with scanout. Default: on.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSwapMethod\*q \*q" string \*q
Select the method used for buffer swap. Default: blit.
.br
blit    \-\- Use blit from the back buffer to the front buffer.
.br
flip    \-\- Exchange back and front buffers.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qPageFlipBuffers\*q \*q" integer \*q
Number of page flip buffers to use. Default: 3.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qFlipStatsTime\*q \*q" integer \*q
Periodically print the page flip statistics: number of swap requests,
render complete events, flip complete events etc. The time is specified in
milliseconds.  This option is only effective when the driver has
been compiled with --enable-flip-stats.  Default: 0/off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qFlipStatsReset\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Reset the flip statistics counters after printing them.  This option is only
effective when the driver has been compiled with --enable-flip-stats.
Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qCanScreenSizeChange\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Can screen size be changed via XRandR? Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qPoisonGetBuffers\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Poison the DRI2 back buffers with a red color? Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qPoisonSwapBuffers\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Poison the window front buffers with a yellow color if SwapBuffers is
performed without GetBuffers? Default: off.

.SH OUTPUT CONFIGURATION
The driver supports runtime configuration of the outputs via XRandR output
properties.
.PP
.SS LCD
LCD panel
.TP
.B SignalFormat
Purely informational. Default: LVDS.
.TP
.B ConnectorType
Purely informational. Default: Panel.
.TP
.B VideoAlpha
Alpha blending factor for video (0-255). Will be combined with the
XV_OVERLAY_ALPHA value from the Xv port to produce the final alpha blending
factor. The final alpha value = VideoAlpha * XV_OVERLAY_ALPHA / 255.
Default: 255.
.TP
.B GraphicsAlpha
Alpha blending factor for graphics (0-255). Default: 255.
.TP
.B AlphaMode
Enable or disable alpha blending (0 or 1). Default: 1.
.SS TV
Composite TV output
.TP
.B SignalProperties
Selected TV standard (PAL or NTSC). Default: PAL.
.TP
.B SignalFormat
Selected TV standard (Composite-PAL or Composite-NTSC).
Default: Composite-PAL.
.TP
.B ConnectorType
Purely informational. Default: TV-Composite.
.TP
.B VideoAlpha
See LCD
.TP
.B GraphicsAlpha
See LCD
.TP
.B AlphaMode
See LCD
.TP
.B TVAspectRatio
The physical aspect ratio of the TV (4:3 or 16:9). Default: 4:3.
.TP
.B TVDynamicAspectRatio
Controls whether the driver can freely choose the actually used aspect ratio. If
enabled, the driver may choose to use a 4:3 aspect ratio even if TVAspectRatio
indicates that a 16:9 TV is used. The driver informs the TV about the used aspect
ratio using WSS (Widescreen signalling). The TV should then adapt to the new
aspect automatically, in order to display the final image in the correct aspect
ratio. Some TVs however don't support WSS so sometimes it may be beneficial to
disable this feature. Default: 1.
.TP
.B TVScale
Scaling factor that controls the size of the image (0-100). A value of 100 means
that the image will occupy the full width or height of the active video area,
while maintaining the correct aspect ratio. Smaller values naturally make the
final image smaller. The default value has been chosen so that it avoids having
the image appear in the overscan area. Default: 90.
.TP
.B TVXOffset
The horizontal offset from the left edge of the active video area. 0 means that
the driver uses a hardcoded default value, which has been selected so that the
image would appear centered within the visible video area. A value 1 would
position the image immediately in the left edge of the active video area.
Increasing the value would move the image to the right.
Default: 0.
.TP
.B TVYOffset
The vertical offset from the top edge of the active video area. 0 means that the
driver uses a hardcoded default value, which has been selected so that the image
would appear centered within the visible video area. A value 1 would position
the image immediately in the top edge of the active video area. Increasing the
value would move the image downwards. Default: 0.
.TP
.B XvCloneFullscreen
Controls whether Xv content can be cloned to this output. If enabled, Xv content
visible on the LCD will appear fullscreen on the TV, assuming the
XV_CLONE_FULLSCREEN port attribute on the Xv port is also enabled. Default: 1.
.SH XV OVERLAY VIDEO
The driver implements an overlay video Xv adaptor which uses the OMAP DISPC
to perform color space conversion and scaling. The adaptor has two ports.
The formats supported are YUY2, UYVY, I420, YV12, RV12, RV16, RV32, AV12 and
AV32. The following port attributes are supported.
.TP
.B XV_CRTC
Controls which XRandR CRTC shows the video overlay. A specia value of -1
indicates that the driver chooses the CRTC itself based on the coverage
of the video area. Default: -1.
.TP
.B XV_SYNC_TO_VBLANK
Synchronize buffers swaps with the display refresh to avoid tearing. Default: 1.
.TP
.B XV_COLORKEY
The colorkey value used. The overlay will only be visible if the underlying
graphics pixel matches this value. Default: green.
.TP
.B XV_AUTOPAINT_COLORKEY
Controls whether the driver automatically paints the colorkey onto the window.
Default: 1.
.TP
.B XV_DISABLE_COLORKEY
Disable color keying. The overlay will be fully visible when this is enabled,
regardless of the graphics contents below it. Default: 0.
.TP
.B XV_DOUBLE_BUFFER
Use double buffering to avoid tearing. Default: 1.
.TP
.B XV_OVERLAY_ALPHA
Alpha blending factor for this overlay. See VideoAlpha in the XRandR section.
Default: 255.
.TP
.B XV_CLONE_FULLSCREEN
Clone this Xv port to the TV? See XvCloneFullscreen in the XRandR section.
Default: 1.
.TP
.B XV_STACKING
Control the stacking order of Xv overlays. A value of 0 means "don't care".
An Xv port with a value 2 will appear on top of an Xv port with a value of 1.
Must be configured before the first XvPutImage request is issued on the port.
Default: 0.
.TP
.B XV_ROTATION
Controls the rotation and reflection of the video overlay. The value is
must be valid XRandR Rotation value ie. a combination of RR_Rotate_0,
RR_Rotate_90, RR_Rotate_180 or RR_Rotate_280, and
RR_Reflect_X, RR_Reflect_Y. Default: RR_Rotate_0.
.SH XV TEXTURED VIDEO
The driver implements a textured video Xv adaptor which uses the SGX to perform
color space conversion and scaling. The adaptor has two ports. The formats
supported are YUY2, UYVY, I420 and YV12. The following port attributes are
supported.
.TP
.B XV_BRIGHTNESS
Adjust brightness (-50 to 50). Default: 0.
.TP
.B XV_CONTRAST
Adjust contrast (-100 to 100). Default: 0.
.TP
.B XV_SATURATION
Adjust saturation (0 to 200). Default: 0.
.TP
.B XV_HUE
.br
Adjust hue (-30 to 30). Default: 0.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), xorgconfig(__appmansuffix__), Xserver(__appmansuffix__),
X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Nokia.
